Effects of external conditions — Use and disuse, combined with natural selection; organs of flight and of
vision — Acclimatisation — Correlation of growth
— Compensation and economy of growth — False
correlations —Multiple, rudimentary, and lowly
organised structures variable — Parts developed in
an unusual manner are highly variable: specific characters more variable than generic: secondary sexual
characters variable —Species of the same genus vary
in an analogous manner — Reversions to long lost
characters — Summary.
I HAVE HITHERTO sometimes spoken as if the variations—so common and multiform in organic beings
under domestication, and in a lesser degree in those
in a state of nature—had been due to chance. This,
of course, is a wholly incorrect expression, but it
serves to acknowledge plainly our ignorance of the
cause of each particular variation. Some authors believe it to be as much the function of the reproductive
system to produce individual differences, or very
slight deviations of structure, as to make the child like
its parents. But the much greater variability, as well
as the greater frequency of monstrosities, under domestication or cultivation, than under nature, leads
me to believe that deviations of structure are in some
way due to the nature of the conditions of life, to which
the parents and their more remote ancestors have been
exposed during several generations. I have remarked
in the first chapter—but a long catalogue of facts which
cannot be here given would be necessary to show the
truth of the remark—that the reproductive system is
eminently susceptible to changes in the conditions of
life; and to this system being functionally disturbed
in the parents, I chiefly attribute the varying or plastic
condition of the offspring. The male and female sexual
elements seem to be affected before that union takes
place which is to form a new being. In the case of ‘sport-
On the Origin of Species
ing’ plants, the bud, which in its earliest condition does
not apparently differ essentially from an ovule, is alone
affected. But why, because the reproductive system is
disturbed, this or that part should vary more or less,
we are profoundly ignorant. Nevertheless, we can here
and there dimly catch a faint ray of light, and we may
feel sure that there must be some cause for each deviation of structure, however slight.
How much direct effect difference of climate, food,
&c., produces on any being is extremely doubtful. My
impression is, that the effect is extremely small in the
case of animals, but perhaps rather more in that of
plants. We may, at least, safely conclude that such
influences cannot have produced the many striking
and complex co-adaptations of structure between one
organic being and another, which we see everywhere
throughout nature. Some little influence may be attributed to climate, food, &c.: thus, E. Forbes speaks
confidently that shells at their southern limit, and
when living in shallow water, are more brightly
coloured than those of the same species further north
or from greater depths. Gould believes that birds of
the same species are more brightly coloured under a
clear atmosphere, than when living on islands or near
the coast. So with insects, Wollaston is convinced that
residence near the sea affects their colours. MoquinTandon gives a list of plants which when growing near
the sea-shore have their leaves in some degree fleshy,
though not elsewhere fleshy. Several other such cases
could be given.
The fact of varieties of one species, when they range
into the zone of habitation of other species, often acquiring in a very slight degree some of the characters of such species, accords with our view that species of all kinds are only well-marked and permanent varieties. Thus the species of shells which are
confined to tropical and shallow seas are generally
brighter-coloured than those confined to cold and
deeper seas. The birds which are confined to continents are, according to Mr. Gould, brighter-coloured
than those of islands. The insect-species confined to
sea-coasts, as every collector knows, are often brassy
Charles Darwin
or lurid. Plants which live exclusively on the seaside are very apt to have fleshy leaves. He who believes in the creation of each species, will have to
say that this shell, for instance, was created with
bright colours for a warm sea; but that this other shell
became bright-coloured by variation when it ranged
into warmer or shallower waters.
When a variation is of the slightest use to a being,
we cannot tell how much of it to attribute to the accumulative action of natural selection, and how
much to the conditions of life. Thus, it is well known
to furriers that animals of the same species have
thicker and better fur the more severe the climate is
under which they have lived; but who can tell how
much of this difference may be due to the warmestclad individuals having been favoured and preserved during many generations, and how much to
the direct action of the severe climate? for it would
appear that climate has some direct action on the hair
of our domestic quadrupeds.
Instances could be given of the same variety being
produced under conditions of life as different as can
well be conceived; and, on the other hand, of different varieties being produced from the same species
under the same conditions. Such facts show how indirectly the conditions of life must act. Again, innumerable instances are known to every naturalist of
species keeping true, or not varying at all, although
living under the most opposite climates. Such considerations as these incline me to lay very little
weight on the direct action of the conditions of life.
Indirectly, as already remarked, they seem to play
an important part in affecting the reproductive system, and in thus inducing variability; and natural
selection will then accumulate all profitable variations, however slight, until they become plainly developed and appreciable by us.
Effects of Use and Disuse. — From the facts alluded
to in the first chapter, I think there can be little doubt
that use in our domestic animals strengthens and
enlarges certain parts, and disuse diminishes them;
On the Origin of Species
and that such modifications are inherited. Under free
nature, we can have no standard of comparison, by
which to judge of the effects of long-continued use
or disuse, for we know not the parent-forms; but
many animals have structures which can be explained by the effects of disuse. As Professor Owen
has remarked, there is no greater anomaly in nature
than a bird that cannot fly; yet there are several in
this state. The logger-headed duck of South America
can only flap along the surface of the water, and has
its wings in nearly the same condition as the domestic Aylesbury duck. As the larger ground-feeding
birds seldom take flight except to escape danger, I
believe that the nearly wingless condition of several
birds, which now inhabit or have lately inhabited
several oceanic islands, tenanted by no beast of prey,
has been caused by disuse. The ostrich indeed inhabits continents and is exposed to danger from
which it cannot escape by flight, but by kicking it
can defend itself from enemies, as well as any of the
smaller quadrupeds. We may imagine that the early
progenitor of the ostrich had habits like those of a
bustard, and that as natural selection increased in
successive generations the size and weight of its
body, its legs were used more, and its wings less,
until they became incapable of flight.
Kirby has remarked (and I have observed the same
fact) that the anterior tarsi, or feet, of many male
dung-feeding beetles are very often broken off; he
examined seventeen specimens in his own collection, and not one had even a relic left. In the Onites
apelles the tarsi are so habitually lost, that the insect
has been described as not having them. In some other
genera they are present, but in a rudimentary condition. In the Ateuchus or sacred beetle of the Egyptians, they are totally deficient. There is not sufficient evidence to induce us to believe that mutilations are ever inherited; and I should prefer explaining the entire absence of the anterior tarsi in
Ateuchus, and their rudimentary condition in some
other genera, by the long-continued effects of disuse in their progenitors; for as the tarsi are almost
always lost in many dung-feeding beetles, they must
be lost early in life, and therefore cannot be much
used by these insects.
